2021-02-25
Alexander Thomas Mol Holmquist

CRISP-DM Phase 2 -- "Data understanding"
Task 2.2 -- "Describe data"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Output -- Data description report

format: csv
num_instances: 21613
num_features: 21

The columns and their basic attributes are contained within the file
doc/history/data-description.yaml.

A basic explanation of each feature is given below.

id: Unique identifier

date: Date house was sold

price: Price of the house

bedrooms: Number of Bedrooms  

bathrooms: Number of bathrooms/bedrooms

sqft_living: square footage of the house

sqft_lot: square footage of the lot

floors: Total floors (levels) in house -- can be a decimal number,
  in which case I suppose it means that the house has a
  basement. This hypothesis is backed up by the fact that there are
  the unique values [1, 2, 3, 1.5, 2.5, 3.5], which indicate that
  for every house level there is some house with and without
  basement. Also, there are no "2.25" or "2.75".

waterfront: '1' if the House has a waterfront. '0' if it doesn't'

view: Index from 0 to 4 of how good the view of the house was.

condition :How good the condition is Overall

grade: overall grade given to the housing unit, based on King County
  grading system

  according to
  https://info.kingcounty.gov/assessor/esales/Glossary.aspx?type=r
  
  there are the following grades:
  	Represents the construction quality of improvements. Grades run from grade 1 to 13. Generally defined as:

    1-3 Falls short of minimum building standards. Normally cabin or
    inferior structure.

    4 Generally older, low quality construction. Does not meet code.

    5 Low construction costs and workmanship. Small, simple design.

    6 Lowest grade currently meeting building code. Low quality
    materials and simple designs.

    7 Average grade of construction and design. Commonly seen in
    plats and older sub-divisions.

    8 Just above average in construction and design. Usually better
    materials in both the exterior and interior finish work.

    9 Better architectural design with extra interior and exterior
    design and quality.

    10 Homes of this quality generally have high quality
    features. Finish work is better and more design quality is seen
    in the floor plans. Generally have a larger square footage.

    11 Custom design and higher quality finish work with added
    amenities of solid woods, bathroom fixtures and more luxurious
    options.

    12 Custom design and excellent builders. All materials are of
    the highest quality and all conveniences are present.

    13 Generally custom designed and built. Mansion level. Large
    amount of highest quality cabinet work, wood trim, marble, entry
    ways etc.

sqft_above: square footage of house apart from
basement

sqft_basement: square footage of the basement

yr_built: Built Year

yr_renovated: Year when house was renovated

zipcode: zip code

lat: Latitude coordinate

long: Longitude coordinate

sqft_living15: Average size of interior housing living space for the
               closest 15 houses, in square feet

sqft_lot15: Average size of land lost for the closest 15 houses, in
            square feet
